Rewrite 'Response to Out-of-Order Packets' (#155)
quicwg/ack-frequency: draft-ietf-quic-ack-frequency.md

As specified in {{Section 13.2.1 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, endpoints are expected to
send an acknowledgement immediately on receiving a reordered ack-eliciting

> packet. This extension modifies that behavior when an ACK FREQUENCY frame with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
packet. This extension modifies that behavior when an ACK_FREQUENCY frame with
```

a Reordering Threshold value other than 1 is received.

Largest Unacked
: The largest packet number of a received ack-eliciting packet.

Largest Acked

> : The Largest Acknowledged value sent in in an ACK frame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The Largest Acknowledged value sent in an ACK frame.
```

Unreported Missing
: Packets with packet numbers between the Largest Unacked and Largest Acked that
  have not yet been received.

> An endpoint that receives an ACK_FREQUENCY frame with a Reordering
> Threshold value other than 0x00 SHOULD send an immediate ACK when the gap

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An endpoint that receives an ACK_FREQUENCY frame with a non-zero Reordering
Threshold value SHOULD send an immediate ACK when the gap
```

between the smallest Unreported Missing packet and the Largest Unacked is greater
than or equal to the Reordering Threshold value.

In order to ensure timely loss detection, the Reordering Threshold provided
in the ACK_FREQUENCY frame SHOULD NOT be larger than the re-ordering threshold
used by the data sender for loss detection. ({{Section 18.2 of QUIC-RECOVERY}})
recommends a default packet threshold for loss detection of 3.

If the most recent ACK_FREQUENCY frame received from the peer has a `Reordering

> Threshold` value of 0x00, the endpoint SHOULD NOT send an immediate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Threshold` value of 0, the endpoint SHOULD NOT send an immediate
```

As specified in {{Section 13.2.1 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, endpoints are expected to
send an acknowledgement immediately on receiving a reordered ack-eliciting
packet. This extension modifies that behavior when an ACK_FREQUENCY frame with
a Reordering Threshold value other than 1 is received.

Largest Unacked
: The largest packet number of a received ack-eliciting packet.

Largest Acked
: The Largest Acknowledged value sent in an ACK frame.

Unreported Missing
: Packets with packet numbers between the Largest Unacked and Largest Acked that
  have not yet been received.

An endpoint that receives an ACK_FREQUENCY frame with a non-zero Reordering
Threshold value SHOULD send an immediate ACK when the gap
between the smallest Unreported Missing packet and the Largest Unacked is greater
than or equal to the Reordering Threshold value.

In order to ensure timely loss detection, the Reordering Threshold provided
in the ACK_FREQUENCY frame SHOULD NOT be larger than the re-ordering threshold
used by the data sender for loss detection. ({{Section 18.2 of QUIC-RECOVERY}})
recommends a default packet threshold for loss detection of 3.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This will ensure that an ACK is sent at exactly the point when loss can be detected by the peer without delays. Sending this ACK will reset the ACK timer or counter as any ACK would do.
```

As specified in {{Section 13.2.1 of QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, endpoints are expected to
send an acknowledgement immediately on receiving a reordered ack-eliciting
packet. This extension modifies that behavior when an ACK_FREQUENCY frame with
a Reordering Threshold value other than 1 is received.

Largest Unacked

> : The largest packet number of a received ack-eliciting packet.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
: The largest packet number among all received ack-eliciting packets so far.
```

> : The largest packet number among all received ack-eliciting packets so far.

Author: ```suggestion
: The largest packet number among all received ack-eliciting packets.
```

Largest Acked
: The Largest Acknowledged value sent in an ACK frame.

Unreported Missing
: Packets with packet numbers between the Largest Unacked and Largest Acked that
  have not yet been received.

An endpoint that receives an ACK_FREQUENCY frame with a non-zero Reordering
Threshold value SHOULD send an immediate ACK when the gap
between the smallest Unreported Missing packet and the Largest Unacked is greater
than or equal to the Reordering Threshold value.

In order to ensure timely loss detection, the Reordering Threshold provided

> in the ACK_FREQUENCY frame SHOULD NOT be larger than the re-ordering threshold

Reviewer 2: Actually this doesn't seem fully write. It should not be larger but also not smaller because you need it exactly at the same value as the re-ordering threshold. Maybe having a too small value is even worse because this makes the mechanism useless.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the ACK_FREQUENCY frame should match the re-ordering threshold
```

> In order to ensure timely loss detection and avoid unnecessary immediate
> acknowledgements, it is optimal to send a Reordering Threshold value of 1 less than
> the packet threshold used by the data sender for loss detection.
> ({{Section 18.2 of QUIC-RECOVERY}}) recommends a default packet threshold for
> loss detection of 3, equivalent to a Reordering Threshold of 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to ensure timely loss detection, it is optimal to send a Reordering Threshold value of 1 less than
the packet threshold used by the data sender for loss detection.
If the threshold is smaller, the additional ACK does not provide input to
the loss detection. If the value is larger, it creates unnecessary delays.
({{Section 18.2 of QUIC-RECOVERY}}) recommends a default packet threshold for
loss detection of 3, equivalent to a Reordering Threshold of 2.

```

If the most recent ACK_FREQUENCY frame received from the peer has a `Reordering
Threshold` value of 0, the endpoint SHOULD NOT send an immediate
acknowledgement in response to packets received out of order, and instead
rely on the peer's `Ack-Eliciting Threshold` and `max_ack_delay` thresholds
for sending acknowledgements.

### Examples

When the reordering threshold is 1, any time a packet is received

> and there is a missing packet, it must be at least 1 packet number less, so

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and there is a missing packet,
```

an immediate ACK is sent.

> If the reordering theshold is 3 and we're only considering ACKs sent due to
> reordering:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the reordering theshold is 3 and assuming that packets are received close enough
in time to not exceed max_ack_delay:
```

Author: ACKs could be sent due to packet threshold as well, so I reverted this after accepting it.

>   Receive 1
>   Receive 3 -> 2 Missing
>   Receive 4
>   Receive 5 -> Send ACK
>   Receive 8
>   Receive 9 -> Send ACK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Receive 1
  Receive 3 -> 2 Missing
  Receive 4 -> 2 Missing
  Receive 5 -> Send ACK because of 2
  Receive 8 -> 6,7 Missing
  Receive 9 -> Send ACK because of 6, 7 Missing
  Receive 10 -> Send ACK because of 7
```

> If the reordering threshold is 5 and we're only considering ACKs sent due to
> reordering:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the reordering threshold is 5 and assuming that packets are received close enough
in time to not exceed max_ack_delay:
```

>   Receive 1
>   Receive 3 -> 2 Missing
>   Receive 5 -> 4 Missing
>   Receive 6
>   Receive 7 -> Send ACK
>   Receive 8
>   Receive 9 -> Send ACK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Receive 1
  Receive 3 -> 2 Missing
  Receive 5 -> 2 Missing, 4 Missing
  Receive 6 -> 2 Missing, 4 Missing
  Receive 7 -> Send ACK because of 2, 4 Missing
  Receive 8 -> 4 Missing
  Receive 9 -> Send ACK because of 4
```
